---
layout: post
title: "Flight Level"
author: "Shane George"
categories:
tags: []
image:
---

# The game's name #

This game was originally called Flight, and had a few other titles (Tokyo Day, New York Minute, Flights) but was essentially a game about transiting through a city or two to get home after leaving a cult, and how stress and fear could prevent you from moving forward/away.


# Ruminating #

This game is inspired by my experiences in 2006 when I worked for a political party associated with Lyndon LaRouche. Often, during the creative process, I found myself stuck in a cycle of ruminating on past events, attempting to recreate them. This often led to shelving the game, as it became too personal and lacked the engaging elements I wanted for an interactive story. Even when I tried to fictionalize real-world characters, I found myself deeply contemplating the actual people and events instead.


## Montreal ##

When I left the LaRouche movement, my duffle bag's shoulder strap did break as I changed trains at Snowdon from a Blue train.
There was that brief moment of dispare, as I thought the bag had ripped open, and then I spent some time considering if I try buy something to repair the shoulder strap at the airport. Without a shoulder strap the heavy bag, full mostly of books I didn't need but was too afraid to depart with, became more cumbersome to carry.


## Journal ##

I didn't keep a reflective journal during my time in North America, but did start a [livejournal blog](https://t3liph0n3.livejournal.com/2006/) shortly before leaving.
The journal in the game takes the form of a small A5, week-to-a-page diary, offering only enough space for one or two sentences each day. This limitation becomes a kind of ground truth — a fixed, unembellished record of past experiences. I found that trying to represent flashbacks or detailed memories often felt unreliable, as they could easily be colored by the protagonist’s current perspective or shift depending on what else is revealed during the journey. The journal avoids this issue by offering brief, matter-of-fact entries that serve as anchor points — quiet but revealing. These short lines can trigger flashbacks when needed, but they also allow important information to emerge subtly: things like dumpster diving for food, internal conflicts, feelings of isolation, future faking, kafka traps/thought-blocking, and repeated ignored attempts to raise concerns with leadership. The understatement of these entries mirrors how normalized and unquestioned these experiences may have felt at the time, adding to the overall sense of quiet control and erasure.

